Ladies and gentlemen, friends of Tennessee, today we have the distinct pleasure and honor
of having with us as our guest, one of the most important men in the government of the
United States, a man who's been known to you for his excellent coverage of news and his
objective treatment of domestic news concerning domestic and world affairs over Columbia Broadcasting
Company for many years. He's an old and good friend of mine. Edward R. Murray, head of the
United States Information Agency, he had a certainly as good to have you with us, and very
pleasant to be with you again, son of a. I know that many viewers of this program will
remember the great enjoyment and benefit that they got out of watching and seeing and hearing
you over a period of many years when you were with Columbia Broadcasting Company. I'll
find what I'm doing now much more fascinating and I think more important than anything I've
done before. Exactly what is the United States Information Agency that you had? Well, as you
know, it's an independent agency reporting directly to the president. Secures its budget appropriations
from the Congress as a budget this year at 111.5 million dollars. Its purpose I would define
briefly and I know that you like brevity on these programs. I know everybody is very much
interested in it. I think it's terribly important. I would define its purpose briefly as being
to make United States policy everywhere intelligible and wherever possible, palatable. We do not
operate inside this country. We operate the voice of America. We only operate here when you make
a mistake and that's when you hear a lot about it. Yes, we do. We make a mistake. All the good
things that you do, 99 and 9.10 percent of the time you don't hear much about in the United States.
That's what when you fall on your face, that's true. That's true. Congress and the people are all
over you. I work begins at the water's edge. We operate the voice of America in the shortwave
radio operation. We have a television service, a film program. We operate libraries in 99 countries
abroad. We operate a wireless file which sends from this country to our missions abroad about 10,000
word each day, made up largely of official statements, background material, the sort of thing it is
of use to our embassies and our representatives abroad. We publish pamphlets. We engage in a program
to produce cheap books in translation in Latin America, in Africa, in Southeast Asia.
We have cultural officers stationed abroad who handle the foreign and of exchange programs,
selecting students to come to this country on fellowships. Also, arranging the leader grants,
that is a program under which we bring to this country. Young editors, professors, that sort of
thing, when they return to their own country, we'll be able to explain what this country is about.
Its purpose is its institutions. That in essence is the USIA.
Well, since you've been the head of the USIA and I may say also during the previous administration,
I had an opportunity of being in the cap in some cities and foreign countries, friendly countries.
And I had the impression that the pamphlets and the books, just giving the truth about the United
States, what we stand for, what we're trying to do. We're much appreciated by the people, particularly
the young people in those nations, and this was doing more than most anything I saw to
build good relations with the people in those countries. How do you feel the program as far as
libraries and information is coming along? Well, in the new countries particularly,
in Africa, Southeast Asia, the hunger for something to read, the desire for knowledge, the
curiosity about this country. I failed to mention earlier that we also teach English. We will be
teaching English this year to about a quarter of a million people in Mexico City alone. 7,500
people go to our English classes each day. That's one. And to sit and see people, and I've seen
them from Latin America to Nigeria in the course of the last year, to see them sitting around at night
in adult education classes, reading and discussing the writings of Tom Payne or in Nigeria just a
couple of weeks ago, the Federalist papers. This is a very exciting thing because these people are
trying to hammer out their own destiny. And they're looking about, for example, for newer legences.
As I said, it's the most exciting thing I've ever tried to do. I've been impressed,
uh, the ad that under you, the USI, is not what we would call it propaganda agency.
That all you do is to try to get people in other countries a true and factual and objective
picture of what we're doing here. Of course, that's in addition to the teaching programs, in addition to
the student exchange programs and things of that sort. That is the way you operate it.
It is indeed. And I am convinced that we have no alternative. We must tell the truth because
everything we say in an open society is subject to comparison. And the Nigeria that is sent out of
here, films, television, the wire agencies and so forth, all of that is available to people
abroad. And therefore, if we, we must tell the truth whether we want to or not. And I happen to think
that it is the only method by which we can proceed. Well, I certainly agree with you. Now,
what programs does the US Information Agency carry on behind the iron curtain in the Soviet bloc,
if any? Um, primarily. It is shortwave broadcasting through the voice of America. However,
we will have had this year in the Soviet Union, traveling exhibits, having to do one with plastics,
the whole plastics industry, the products that we produce, another with transportation,
the whole development of transportation here. And one is leaving at the end of this month,
having to do with medicine and the curiosity. I seem to have some knowledge of drugs. Yes.
The curiosity on the part of the Soviet people about this country is really very impressive.
Many of the questions that our guides get, we send along with these exhibits about 20 Americans
who speak Russian fluently. And the Russians who come through with the rate of anywhere from 10
to 15,000 a day are asking questions not only about the exhibit, but about the United States
and how we live. And they will come up to a guide and say, how must it that suit cost you? How long
did you have to work in order to buy it and so forth? And this is one of the most effective
manner, methods we have of communicating with people in the Soviet Union.
I think it is effective, but of course your effectiveness is somewhat limited by the extent
that they will let you take the exhibits around. That is true. We also print in the Soviet Union
a magazine, an article illustrated which has a circulation of 52,000. It would of course skyrocket,
but we are limited to the 52,000 by agreement with the Soviet Union. They print a similar magazine
in this country. But in terms of effectiveness, Senator, you might be interested to know that a few
months ago in our broadcast to Yugoslavia, we ran a little contest to give away a few transistor
radio receivers. And we made a few announcements over a period of one week and we received better
than 18,000 letters from Yugoslavia. And then you do our programs in satellite nations such as
checklist of vacuum. Yes, we operate the voice of America operates in 36 languages.
We estimate our audience to be roughly 20 million, however, in addition to the shortwave broadcast.
We undertake what is called a package programming that is we do tapes and records here and supply
them to local medium wave stations. And there of course is where you get the audience. And we
reckon our audience there to be in the area of 45 million people. I believe that on the 24th of
this month, probably where the voice of America will have its 20th anniversary. That is correct.
We think we're achieving maturity now. Well, I think it's one of the most valuable programs about
the learning of about this country, both inside and outside the iron, iron curtain countries.
And one of the great, I don't know, sensitive and important places in the world today is of course the
newly developed nations of Africa. And our success or our figure there is going to have a great
bearing upon the future of the world. You have, I believe, just recently returned from a two or three
week visit to Africa, have you not? Yes, I did. But tell us how do you think our foreign policy and
our programs are getting along in Africa? Well, I think we are doing moderately well, but I came
back from three weeks, all of it in West Africa, by the way, with a feeling that there is so much to
do and so little time in which to do it. I have never encountered such a combination of
candor, curiosity and suspicion. Suspicion of us, suspicion of the Russian, suspicion of each other.
But there is all along that coast of West Africa in these new countries. What kind of three-age
determination? Well, I started the Dakar and then went down the coast to Leopoldville.
And it was this determination to explode into the second half of the 20th century.
Now, an appetite to read, for example, in Africa south of the Sahara, there are probably, although
no one has exact figures on this, probably one copy of one newspaper per each 1,000 people.
The channels of communication traditionally ran north and south, that is to Paris, to London,
or to Brussels during the colonial period. So there is now this appetite to learn, I think someday
a perceptive historian is going to conclude that the development of the transistor radio was one
of the most important events in this century because it means that it is now possible to communicate
by radio with people who are illiterate, who have no power supply, who have no money economy.
I found, for example, in Guinea and Ghana, two areas that have been heavily penetrated by the Soviet
Union, that there is developing a certain disillusionment with the Soviet Union because the Russians,
historically in any part of the world, are miserable expatriates. They don't like living outside
the Soviet Union. They don't like the climate. They drive their cars too fast. They soak up the good
housing. They tend to treat the local citizens with a degree of content. I came back with the feeling that
in West Africa, nothing is lost that we are always to remind ourselves that communism has not
taken over outside the shadow of Russian tanks or bayonets. And that while these people are
shopping around in the vernacular playing both sides of the street, that still our revolutionary
tradition, our feeling that we share their aspirations and their desires, are very powerful
influence in one whole area. Now, I want to say that I think it's the USIA and your intelligent work
for the various parts of this agency is doing more than any other activity of the government,
ensuring them the true picture of freedom and liberty and what we are trying to do.
Senator, what do we mean to them? When it comes time for us to ask for our appropriations,
this year I shall come back and remind you of that and hope you will use your influence with your
colleagues. Well, I think you've always appreciated the fact that I think particularly under you,
this agency is doing a tremendously good job. I think what we need more of is to let people in
other countries know about the real United States. You're doing that. Do you feel on the whole
very briefly that we are succeeding, that we are getting ahead in our effort in Africa?
I think we are making very considerable progress, as I say. There is so much to do. I think
there are going to be new constellations of power, perhaps new collisions in Africa. I had the
feeling, as a matter of fact, at the end of this trip in Africa that maybe Mr. Dooley was right when
he said anybody who isn't confused doesn't understand what's going on. Well, thank you very much, Ed
Murrow. And I know, friends, that all of you have enjoyed having Ed Murrow with us today as I have,
we wish you well, and you're a very important efforts there. Thank you, Ed. That's all for now. Goodbye.